doc: update Ratify on Azure walkthrough (#665)
deislabs/ratify: docs/examples/ratify-verify-azure-cmd.md

    az aks get-credentials --resource-group ${GROUP_NAME} --name ${AKS_NAME}

    export AKS_OIDC_ISSUER="$(az aks show -n ${AKS_NAME} -g ${GROUP_NAME} --query "oidcIssuerProfile.issuerUrl" -otsv)"
    ```

> Note: The official steps for setting up Workload Identity on AKS can be found [here](https://azure.github.io/azure-workload-identity/docs/quick-start.html).

2. This step above may take around 10 minutes to complete. The registration status can be checked by running the following command:

    ```bash
    az feature show --namespace "Microsoft.ContainerService" --name "EnableWorkloadIdentityPreview" -o table
    Name                                                      RegistrationState
    --------------------------------------------------------    -------------------
    Microsoft.ContainerService/EnableWorkloadIdentityPreview    Registered
    ```

3. Establish federated identity credential. On AZ CLI `${RATIFY_NAMESPACE}` is where you deploy Ratify:

    ```bash
    az identity federated-credential create \
    --name ratify-federated-credential \
    --identity-name "${IDENTITY_NAME}" \
    --resource-group "${GROUP_NAME}" \
    --issuer "${AKS_OIDC_ISSUER}" \

>     --subject system:serviceaccount:"${RATIFY_NAMESPACE}":"gatekeeper-system"

Reviewer: the `gatekeeper-system` is the service account name which might confuse users with the `gatekeeper-system` namespace. Wonder if we should explicitly describe it or change the name.

Author: Changed `gatekeeper-system` to `ratify-admin`, which aligns with https://github.com/deislabs/ratify/blob/main/docs/reference/oras-auth-provider.md#2-azure-workload-identity

    ```

## Configure access policy for AKV 

1. Set the environmental variable for Azure Key Vault URI.

    ```bash
    export VAULT_URI=$(az keyvault show --name ${AKV_NAME} --resource-group ${GROUP_NAME} --query "properties.vaultUri" -otsv)
    ```

2. Import your own private key and certificates. You can import it on the portal as well.

    ```bash
    az keyvault certificate import \
    --vault-name ${AKV_NAME} \
    -n ${KEY_NAME} \
    -f ${CERT_PATH}
    ```
 
3. Configure policy for user-assigned managed identity:

>     

Reviewer: nit: remove extra spaces.

export NOTARY_PERM_NAME=<Name of cerficicate file uploaded to Key Vault>
```
2. Create a Workload Federated Identity.

```
az identity create --name "${IDENTITY_NAME}" --resource-group "${GROUP_NAME}" --location "${LOCATION}" --subscription "${SUBSCRIPTION_ID}"

export IDENTITY_OBJECT_ID="$(az identity show --name "${IDENTITY_NAME}" --resource-group "${GROUP_NAME}" --query 'principalId' -otsv)"
export IDENTITY_CLIENT_ID=$(az identity show --name ${IDENTITY_NAME} --resource-group ${GROUP_NAME} --query 'clientId' -o tsv)
```

3. Create ACR and enable `AcrPull` role to the workload identity.

```
az acr create --name "${ACR_NAME}" \
  --resource-group "${GROUP_NAME}" \
  --sku Standard
```

4. Configure user-assigend managed identity

```
az role assignment create \
  --assignee-object-id ${IDENTITY_OBJECT_ID} \
  --role acrpull \
  --scope subscriptions/${SUBSCRIPTION_ID}/resourceGroups/${GROUP_NAME}/providers/Microsoft.ContainerRegistry/registries/${ACR_NAME}
```

5. Create OIDC enabled AKS cluster by following the steps below:

```
# Install the aks-preview extension
az extension add --name aks-preview

# Register the 'EnableWorkloadIdentityPreview' feature flag

> az feature register --namespace "Microsoft.ContainerService" --name "EnableWorkloadIdentityPreview"

Reviewer 2: It might be worth mentioning this step can take ~10 minutes to complete and registration status can be checked by running

```bash
az feature show --namespace "Microsoft.ContainerService" --name "EnableWorkloadIdentityPreview" -o table
```

When it's been successfully registered, the output of the above command should be:

```bash
Name                                                      RegistrationState
--------------------------------------------------------  -------------------
Microsoft.ContainerService/EnableWorkloadIdentityPreview  Registered
```

az provider register --namespace Microsoft.ContainerService

az aks create \
    --resource-group "${GROUP_NAME}" \
    --name "${AKS_NAME}" \
    --node-vm-size Standard_DS3_v2 \
    --node-count 1 \
    --generate-ssh-keys \
    --enable-workload-identity \
    --attach-acr ${ACR_NAME} \
    --enable-oidc-issuer

# Connect to the AKS cluster:
az aks get-credentials --resource-group ${GROUP_NAME} --name ${AKS_NAME}

export AKS_OIDC_ISSUER="$(az aks show -n ${AKS_NAME} -g ${GROUP_NAME} --query "oidcIssuerProfile.issuerUrl" -otsv)"
```

6. Establish federated identity credential. On AZ CLI `${RATIFY_NAMESPACE}` is where you deploy Ratify:

```
az identity federated-credential create \
  --name ratify-federated-credential \
  --identity-name "${IDENTITY_NAME}" \
  --resource-group "${GROUP_NAME}" \
  --issuer "${AKS_OIDC_ISSUER}" \

>   --subject system:serviceaccount:"${RATIFY_NAMESPACE}":"ratify-admin"

Reviewer 3: I think the default namespace should be changed to `gatekeeper-system` since Ratify should be installed in the same namespace as gatekeeper and that is the default gatekeeper namespace

1. Create a certificate policy file.

    Once the certificate policy file is executed as below, it creates a valid signing certificate compatible with **notation** in AKV. The EKU listed is for code-signing, but isn't required for notation to sign artifacts.

    ```bash
    cat <<EOF > ./my_policy.json
    {
        "issuerParameters": {
        "certificateTransparency": null,
        "name": "Self"
        },
        "x509CertificateProperties": {
        "ekus": [
        "1.3.6.1.5.5.7.3.3"
        ],
        "keyUsage": [
          "digitalSignature"
        ],
        "subject": "CN=wabbit-networks.io,O=Notary,L=Seattle,ST=WA,C=US",
        "validityInMonths": 12
        }
    }
    EOF
    ```

2. Create the certificate.

    ```azure-cli
    az keyvault certificate create -n $KEY_NAME --vault-name $AKV_NAME -p @my_policy.json
    ```

3. Get the Key ID for the certificate.

    ```bash
    KEY_ID=$(az keyvault certificate show -n $KEY_NAME --vault-name $AKV_NAME --query 'kid' -o tsv)
    ```
4. Download public certificate.

    ```bash
    CERT_ID=$(az keyvault certificate show -n $KEY_NAME --vault-name $AKV_NAME --query 'id' -o tsv)

>     az keyvault certificate download --file $CERT_PATH --id $CERT_ID --encoding PEM

Reviewer 3: Not a blocker but curious why we need to download the public cert here?

Author: @akashsinghal  The downloaded cert is used to be added to the trust store for signature verification. 

I just removed the [duplicated image signing steps](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/container-registry/container-registry-tutorial-sign-build-push)g from this doc and mentioned it is a prerequisite. This will make this doc not too long and keep single-source maintenance of content.

Reviewer 3: Ahh that makes sense. Thanks for the explanation

> # Enforce only signed images are allowed to be deployed on AKS with Notation and Ratify

Author: Accepted and changed.

> The Azure Key Vault (AKV) is used to store a signing key that can be utilized by Notation with the Notation AKV plugin (azure-kv) to sign and verify container images and other artifacts. The Azure Container Registry (ACR) allows you to store and distribute signed images with signatures.

Author: Accepted and changed.

The signed containers enable users to assure deployments are built from a trusted entity and verify artifact hasn't been tampered with since their creation. The signed artifact ensures integrity and authenticity before the user pulls an artifact into any environment and avoid attacks. 

This article walks you through an end-to-end workflow of validating and enforcing only signed images are allowed to be deployed on AKS with Notation and Ratify.

In this article:

* Create and store a signing certificate in Azure Key Vault
* Sign a container image with notation
* Create an AKS cluster and ACR registry with Azure Workload Identity configured
* Intall Ratify and Gatekeeper
* Validate a container image signature with Ratify and Gatekeeper
* Deploy a signed image to AKS

![](https://i.imgur.com/1f9dfV9.png)

## Install the Notation CLI and AKV plugin

1. Install Notation v1.0.0-rc.2 on a Linux environment. You can also download the package for other environments from the [release page](https://github.com/notaryproject/notation/releases/tag/v1.0.0-rc.2).

    ```bash
    # Download, extract and install

>     curl -Lo notation.tar.gz https://github.com/notaryproject/notation/releases/download/v1.0.0-rc.2/notation_1.0.0-rc.2_linux_amd64.tar.gz

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    export NOTATION_VERSION=1.0.0-rc.2
    curl -Lo notation.tar.gz https://github.com/notaryproject/notation/releases/download/v${NOTATION_VERSION}/notation_${NOTATION_VERSION}_linux_amd64.tar.gz
```

so it's easy to update these in the future (applies to others as well like notation-akv, etc)

Author: Accepted and changed.

    ```bash
    notation key add $KEY_NAME --plugin azure-kv --id $KEY_ID
    ```

4. List the keys to confirm.

    ```bash
    notation key ls
    ```

5. Choose [COSE](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8152) signature format to sign the container image.

   - Sign the container image with the COSE signature envelope:
 
    ```bash
    notation sign --signature-format cose --key $KEY_NAME $IMAGE
    ```

## View the signed images associated with signatures

Signed images can be viewed with the `notation list` command

```bash
notation list $IMAGE
```
## Create and configure Azure Workload Identity

Ratify pulls artifacts from a private Azure Container Registry using Workload Federated Identity in an Azure Kubernetes Service cluster. For an overview on how workload identity operates in Azure, refer to the [documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/workload-identity-federation). You can use workload identity federation to configure an Azure AD app registration or user-assgined managed identity. The following workflow include Workload Identity configuration.

### Set up Workload Identity with AKS, ACR and AKV:

> The official steps for setting up Workload Identity on AKS can be found here.

Reviewer 5: should "here" be a link?

Author: Yes. fixed.

Ratify pulls artifacts from a private Azure Container Registry using Workload Federated Identity in an Azure Kubernetes Service cluster. For an overview on how workload identity operates in Azure, refer to the [documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/workload-identity-federation). You can use workload identity federation to configure an Azure AD app registration or user-assgined managed identity. The following workflow include Workload Identity configuration.

### Set up Workload Identity with AKS, ACR and AKV:
The official steps for setting up Workload Identity on AKS can be found [here](https://azure.github.io/azure-workload-identity/docs/quick-start.html).

> > Note: if you have identity authenticaton issue in your local machie, you can switch to use Azure Cloud Shell the complete this section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> Note: If you have identity authentication issues on your local machine, you can  use Azure Cloud Shell to complete this section.
```

1. Configure environment variables.

```bash
export IDENTITY_NAME=<Identity Name>
export GROUP_NAME=<Azure Resource Group Name>
export SUBSCRIPTION_ID=<Azure Subscription ID>
export TENANT_ID=<Azure Tenant ID>
export ACR_NAME=<Azure Container Registry Name>
export AKS_NAME=<Azure Kubernetes Service Name>
export KEYVAULT_NAME=<Azure Key Vault Name>
export RATIFY_NAMESPACE=<Namespace where Ratify deployed, defaults to "gatekeeper-system">
export CERT_DIR=<Directory storing TLS certs>

> export NOTARY_PERM_NAME=<Name of cerficicate file uploaded to Key Vault>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
export NOTARY_PEM_NAME=<Name of cerficicate file uploaded to Key Vault>
```

Reviewer 3: also you can get rid of the `CERT_DIR` since we are relying on the chart auto generating this now.

Author: That's cool!

```bash
export VAULT_URI=$(az keyvault show --name ${KEYVAULT_NAME} --resource-group ${GROUP_NAME} --query "properties.vaultUri" -otsv)
```

9. Import your own private key and certificates. You can import it on the portal as well.

```bash
az keyvault certificate import \
  --vault-name ${KEYVAULT_NAME} \
  -n <Certificate Name> \
  -f /path/to/certificate
```
 
10. Configure policy for user-assigned managed identity:
    
```bash
az keyvault set-policy --name ${KEYVAULT_NAME} \
  --certificate-permissions get \
  --object-id ${IDENTITY_OBJECT_ID}
```

## Deploy Gatekeeper and Ratify on AKS 

1. Deploy Gatekeeper from helm chart:

```bash
helm repo add gatekeeper https://open-policy-agent.github.io/gatekeeper/charts

helm install gatekeeper/gatekeeper  \
  --name-template=gatekeeper \
  --namespace gatekeeper-system --create-namespace \
  --set enableExternalData=true \
  --set validatingWebhookTimeoutSeconds=5 \
  --set mutatingWebhookTimeoutSeconds=2
```

2. Deploy Ratify from helm chart:

```bash
helm clone https://github.com/deislabs/ratify.git

helm install ratify ./charts/ratify --atomic \
  --namespace ${RATIFY_NAMESPACE} \

>   --set-file provider.tls.crt=${CERT_DIR}/server.crt \

Author: Updated according to your latest PR.

  --set-file provider.tls.key=${CERT_DIR}/server.key \
  --set provider.tls.cabundle="$(cat ${CERT_DIR}/ca.crt | base64 | tr -d '\n')" \
  --set oras.authProviders.azureWorkloadIdentityEnabled=true \
  --set azureWorkloadIdentity.clientId=${IDENTITY_CLIENT_ID} \
  --set akvCertConfig.enabled=true \
  --set akvCertConfig.vaultURI=${VAULT_URI} \
  --set akvCertConfig.cert1Name=${NOTARY_PEM_NAME} \
  --set akvCertConfig.tenantId=${TENANT_ID}
```

3. Enforce Gatekeeper policy to allow only signed images can be deployed:

```bash
kubectl apply -f https://deislabs.github.io/ratify/library/default/template.yaml
kubectl apply -f https://deislabs.github.io/ratify/library/default/samples/constraint.yaml
```

> 4. This step above may take around 10 minutes to complete and registration status can be checked by running the following command:

Reviewer 5: this step seems out of place as deploing ratify doens't take 10min, i wonder if the "10 min" wait is on the cluster creation?

Author: Updated according to your latest PR

> helm install ratify \

Reviewer 3: @FeynmanZhou I believe the purpose of the guide is to verify against the newly created image and signature created in the Notation signing portion of the guide. This install step uses the quick start published test image `wabbitnetworks.azurecr.io` and its test signature rather than the new user defined one. We need to update this install step with the correct AKV, Workload Identity flags for install.

Reviewer 3: Here's the install step from our Azure CI test: https://github.com/deislabs/ratify/blob/8ed9ccf4075afaf8936a44fcc67b2c769043aae3/scripts/azure-ci-test.sh#L66

Author: Good catch. I mistakenly copied the helm installation step from this PR. So should it be:

```
```bash
git clone https://github.com/deislabs/ratify.git

curl -sSLO https://raw.githubusercontent.com/deislabs/ratify/main/test/testdata/notary.crt

helm install ratify ./charts/ratify --atomic \
  --namespace ${RATIFY_NAMESPACE} \
  --set oras.authProviders.azureWorkloadIdentityEnabled=true \
  --set azureWorkloadIdentity.clientId=${IDENTITY_CLIENT_ID} \
  --set akvCertConfig.enabled=true \
  --set akvCertConfig.vaultURI=${VAULT_URI} \
  --set akvCertConfig.cert1Name=${NOTARY_PEM_NAME} \
  --set akvCertConfig.tenantId=${TENANT_ID}
```

Reviewer 3: no need to git clone or curl the notary.crt part either. The install command looks good. I would add the `--create-namespace` flag too just in case:

```
helm install ratify \
    ./charts/ratify --atomic \
    --namespace ${RATIFY_NAMESPACE} --create-namespace \
    --set akvCertConfig.enabled=true \
    --set akvCertConfig.vaultURI=${VAULT_URI} \
    --set akvCertConfig.cert1Name=${NOTARY_PEM_NAME} \
    --set akvCertConfig.tenantId=${TENANT_ID} \
    --set oras.authProviders.azureWorkloadIdentityEnabled=true \
    --set azureWorkloadIdentity.clientId=${IDENTITY_CLIENT_ID}
```

Author: Accepted and updated
